- Often, when we talk about microservices,
we're talking about cloud native.
But that isn't always the case.
It's important for us to level set
on what the two have in common and what they don't.
Cloud-native architectures are based loosely
on building applications according
to the Twelve-Factor Methodologies.
If you aren't familiar with this concept,
please take a look at my course
on Twelve-Factor application development.
This course focuses on microservices
and not cloud native,
but often they do go together.
So let's spend a few minutes
and discuss this at a high level.
Cloud-native architectures include patterns
for designing systems to run in cloud-based infrastructure.
Now cloud infrastructure is a very loose term.
Often, when people hear cloud,
they assume AWS or Azure,
but that's only part of the story.
Cloud infrastructures can be public,
but they can also be private or even a hybrid.
Cloud computing is a pattern
of globally distributing systems
to provide increased uptime, increased scalability,
and increased distribution.
You can build cloud systems
that run in a single data center
with plans on building out more globally.
Or you can build systems that run in a public cloud
that can further be distributed when needed.
Microservices tend to fit very nicely
into a cloud-native architecture
because they tend to be a very smooth transition
to a Twelve-Factor application.
But I do want to be clear
that they are two very distinct concepts.
You can build monolithic cloud-native applications,
and you can build microservices
that are not capable of moving to the cloud at all.
I hear all too often people confusing the two patterns.
To be honest, that concerns me.
We must keep the delineation clear
so as not to confuse the topics,
which is why I am spending this much time
discussing it in this course.
For all of their differences, as I've said,
they do tend to go together.
In my professional life,
every microservice we build today
is aimed at delivering to a cloud-native platform.
We started our microservices journey
before our cloud journey, but the two have quickly merged.
Let's take a look at where they fit together.
A microservice-based application
is usually stored in a single code base,
which is a requirement for Twelve-Factor.
A microservice often is also
a completely self-contained unit,
making the move to the cloud much easier.
Usually, there are only a few changes
with how dependencies are managed
and the leveraging of backing services,
both of which come naturally in a microservices model.
The biggest challenge is if your microservice itself
does work with the file system.
These use cases usually require a migration
to something like Amazon S3
or some other remote file system.
Throughout the rest of this course
I will be focused solely on microservices.
But as I just mentioned, in my professional life
we deploy our microservices to a cloud-native platform.
I will try to share tidbits of information
that will help you make this transition
from VM or big iron-based microservices
to a cloud-native version.
But again, our primary focus is indeed
the microservices themselves.